# Contributing to logl

Welcome to the logl repository! This document describes the procedure and
guidelines for contributing to the logl project. The subsequent sections
encapsulate the criteria used to evaluate additions to, and modifications of,
the existing codebase.

## Contributor Workflow

The codebase is maintained using the "*contributor workflow*" where everyone
without exception contributes patch proposals using "*pull-requests*". This
facilitates social contribution, easy testing and peer review.

To contribute a patch, the workflow is as follows:

* Fork repository
* Create topic branch
* Commit patch
* Create pull-request, adhering to the coding conventions herein set forth

In general a commit serves a single purpose and diffs should be easily
comprehensible. For this reason do not mix any formatting fixes or code moves
with actual code changes.

## Style Guide

`La mode se démode, le style jamais.`

Guided by the immortal words of Gabrielle Bonheur, we strive to adhere strictly
to best stylistic practices for each line of code in this software.

At this stage one should expect comments and reviews from fellow contributors.
You can add more commits to your pull request by committing them locally and
pushing to your fork until you have satisfied all feedback. That being said,
before the pull request is merged, it should be squashed.

#### Stylistic

The fundamental resource logl contributors should familiarize themselves with
is Oracle's [Code Conventions for the Java TM Programming
Language](http://www.oracle.com/technetwork/java/codeconvtoc-136057.html), to
establish a general programme on Java coding. Furthermore, all pull-requests
should be formatted according to the [Google Java Style
Guide](https://google.github.io/styleguide/javaguide.html), as the the [Google
Java Style reformatter](https://github.com/google/google-java-format) is a
component piece of our continuous integration architecture, code that does not
comply stylistically will fail to pass the requisite candidate tests.

#### Architectural Best Practices

Questions on architectural best practices will be guided by the principles set
forth in [Effective Java](http://index-of.es/Java/Effective%20Java.pdf) by
Joshua Bloch.

#### Clear Commit/PR Messages

Commit messages should be verbose by default consisting of a short subject line
(50 chars max), a blank line and detailed explanatory text as separate
paragraph(s), unless the title alone is self-explanatory, in which case a
single title line is sufficient. Commit messages should be helpful to people
reading your code in the future, so explain the reasoning for your decisions.
Further explanation on commit messages can be found
[here](https://chris.beams.io/posts/git-commit/).

#### Test coverage

The test cases are sufficient enough to provide confidence in the code’s
robustness, while avoiding redundant tests.

#### Readability

The code is easy to understand.

#### Simplicity

The code is not over-engineered, sufficient effort is made to minimize the
cyclomatic complexity of the software.  

#### Functional

Insofar as is possible the code intuitively and expeditiously executes the
designated task.

#### Clean

The code is free from glaring typos (*e.g. misspelled comments*), thinkos, or
formatting issues (*e.g. incorrect indentation*).

#### Appropriately Commented

Ambiguous or unclear code segments are commented. The comments are written in
complete sentences.
